This control is primarily directed at external developers, although it could also be used for 
internal (in-house) development. In contrast, PL-8 is primarily directed at internal developers 
to help ensure that organizations develop an information security architecture and such security 
architecture is integrated or tightly coupled to the enterprise architecture. This distinction is 
important if/when organizations outsource the development of information systems, information 
system components, or information system services to external entities, and there is a requirement 
to demonstrate consistency with the organization’s enterprise architecture and information 
security architecture. Related controls: PL-8, PM-7, SA-3, SA-8.

Anti-tamper technologies and techniques provide a level of protection for critical information 
systems, system components, and information technology products against a number of related 
threats including modification, reverse engineering, and substitution. Strong identification 
combined with tamper resistance and/or tamper detection is essential to protecting information 
systems, components, and products during distribution and when in use. Related controls: PE-3, 
SA-12, SI-7.


This control applies to both internal and external networks and all types of information system 
components from which information can be transmitted (e.g., servers, mobile devices, notebook 
computers, printers, copiers, scanners, facsimile machines). Communication paths outside the 
physical protection of a controlled boundary are exposed to the possibility of interception and 
modification. Protecting the confidentiality and/or integrity of organizational information can 
be accomplished by physical means (e.g., by employing protected distribution systems) or by 
logical means (e.g., employing encryption techniques). Organizations relying on commercial 
providers offering transmission services as commodity services rather than as fully dedicated 
services (i.e., services which can be highly specialized to individual customer needs), may find 
it difficult to obtain the necessary assurances regarding the implementation of needed security 
controls for transmission confidentiality/integrity. In such situations, organizations determine 
what types of confidentiality/integrity services are available in standard, commercial 
telecommunication service packages. If it is infeasible or impractical to obtain the necessary 
security controls and assurances of control effectiveness through appropriate contracting 
vehicles, organizations implement appropriate compensating security controls or explicitly 
accept the additional risk. Related controls: AC-17, PE-4.


Cryptographic key management and establishment can be performed using manual procedures or 
automated mechanisms with supporting manual procedures. Organizations define key management 
requirements in accordance with applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, 
regulations, policies, standards, and guidance, specifying appropriate options, levels, and 
parameters. Organizations manage trust stores to ensure that only approved trust anchors are 
in such trust stores. This includes certificates with visibility external to organizational 
information systems and certificates related to the internal operations of systems. Related 
controls: SC-13, SC-17.


Cryptography can be employed to support a variety of security solutions including, for example, 
the protection of classified and Controlled Unclassified Information, the provision of digital 
signatures, and the enforcement of information separation when authorized individuals have the 
necessary clearances for such information but lack the necessary formal access approvals. 
Cryptography can also be used to support random number generation and hash generation. 
Generally applicable cryptographic standards include FIPS-validated cryptography and NSA-approved 
cryptography. This control does not impose any requirements on organizations to use cryptography. 
However, if cryptography is required based on the selection of other security controls, 
organizations define each type of cryptographic use and the type of cryptography required 
(e.g., protection of classified information: NSA-approved cryptography; provision of digital 
signatures: FIPS-validated cryptography). Related controls: AC-2, AC-3, AC-7, AC-17, AC-18, AU-9, 
AU-10, CM-11, CP-9, IA-3, IA-7, MA-4, MP-2, MP-4, MP-5, SA-4, SC-8, SC-12, SC-28, SI-7.


This control addresses the confidentiality and integrity of information at rest and covers user 
information and system information. Information at rest refers to the state of information when 
it is located on storage devices as specific components of information systems. System-related 
information requiring protection includes, for example, configurations or rule sets for firewalls, 
gateways, intrusion detection/prevention systems, filtering routers, and authenticator content. 
Organizations may employ different mechanisms to achieve confidentiality and integrity 
protections, including the use of cryptographic mechanisms and file share scanning. Integrity 
protection can be achieved, for example, by implementing Write-Once-Read-Many (WORM) technologies. 
Organizations may also employ other security controls including, for example, secure off-line 
storage in lieu of online storage when adequate protection of information at rest cannot otherwise 
be achieved and/or continuous monitoring to identify malicious code at rest. Related controls: 
AC-3, AC-6, CA-7, CM-3, CM-5, CM-6, PE-3, SC-8, SC-13, SI-3, SI-7.


Connection ports include, for example, Universal Serial Bus (USB) and Firewire (IEEE 1394). 
Input/output (I/O) devices include, for example, Compact Disk (CD) and Digital Video Disk (DVD) 
drives. Physically disabling or removing such connection ports and I/O devices helps prevent 
exfiltration of information from information systems and the introduction of malicious code into 
systems from those ports/devices.


Checking the valid syntax and semantics of information system inputs 
(e.g., character set, length, numerical range, and acceptable values) verifies that inputs match 
specified definitions for format and content. Software applications typically follow well-defined 
protocols that use structured messages (i.e., commands or queries) to communicate between software 
modules or system components. Structured messages can contain raw or unstructured data interspersed
 with metadata or control information. If software applications use attacker-supplied inputs to 
construct structured messages without properly encoding such messages, then the attacker could 
insert malicious commands or special characters that can cause the data to be interpreted as 
control information or metadata. Consequently, the module or component that receives the tainted 
output will perform the wrong operations or otherwise interpret the data incorrectly. Prescreening 
inputs prior to passing to interpreters prevents the content from being unintentionally interpreted
as commands. Input validation helps to ensure accurate and correct inputs and prevent attacks such
as cross-site scripting and a variety of injection attacks.


Organizations carefully consider the structure/content of error messages. The extent to which 
information systems are able to identify and handle error conditions is guided by organizational 
policy and operational requirements. Information that could be exploited by adversaries includes, 
for example, erroneous logon attempts with passwords entered by mistake as the username, 
mission/business information that can be derived from (if not stated explicitly by) information 
recorded, and personal information such as account numbers, social security numbers, and credit 
card numbers. In addition, error messages may provide a covert channel for transmitting information
. Related controls: AU-2, AU-3, SC-31.

Information handling and retention requirements cover the full life cycle of information, in some 
cases extending beyond the disposal of information systems. The National Archives and Records 
Administration provides guidance on records retention. Related controls: AC-16, AU-5, AU-11, 
MP-2, MP-4.


Certain types of cyber attacks (e.g., SQL injections) produce output results that are unexpected 
or inconsistent with the output results that would normally be expected from software programs or 
applications. This control enhancement focuses on detecting extraneous content, preventing such 
extraneous content from being displayed, and alerting monitoring tools that anomalous behavior 
has been discovered. Related controls: SI-3, SI-4.


Failure conditions include, for example, loss of communications among critical system components 
or between system components and operational facilities. Fail-safe procedures include, for 
example, alerting operator personnel and providing specific instructions on subsequent steps 
to take (e.g., do nothing, reestablish system settings, shut down processes, restart the system, 
or contact designated organizational personnel). Related controls: CP-12, CP-13, SC-24, SI-13.


System-level information includes, for example, system-state information, operating system and 
application software, and licenses. User-level information includes any information other than 
system-level information. Mechanisms employed by organizations to protect the integrity of 
information system backups include, for example, digital signatures and cryptographic hashes. 
Protection of system backup information while in transit is beyond the scope of this control. 
Information system backups reflect the requirements in contingency plans as well as other 
organizational requirements for backing up information. Related controls: CP-2, CP-6, MP-4, 
MP-5, SC-13.







